## Keywords

AI disruption, creative opportunities, motion capture, machine learning, generative AI, neural networks, large language models, creative workflows, agentic workflows, ethical concerns, data sets, intellectual property, rapid updates, transformative work, accessible guide

## Speakers

Speaker 1 (98%), Speaker 2 (2%)

How are you? This is a network booked on artificial intelligence called

artificial intelligence for creatives,

an accessible guide

by Nye Warburton and various authors.

Section One introduction,

why an accessible guide in artificial intelligence for creatives, artificial intelligence is about to disrupt, if not already disrupting, our world on a moment to moment basis, every day, our technology already eaten by software and platforms and

what's happening on our computers, our Smartphones

will be integrated with

a new form of computing. This form of computing is unlike anything that we've done in the last 40 years. In fact, this is a technology that is unlike anything that we've ever invented before. Most things we've invented could be classified as tools, whether they are the fulcrum in the lever or the pulley or fire or the printing press or electricity, but this is far, far beyond a tool artificial intelligence can learn

and adapt and change

it is imperative that everyone understand artificial intelligence, but as I will argue in this network book, what's most important for me is that creatives and artists

find the opportunity to use it

identify what the opportunities are and protect themselves in a way that they can position themselves in a new world that is radically changing. My experience with artificial intelligence started officially when I was on a motion capture stage several years ago in Los Angeles, I traditionally was an animator and a creative technologist using animation technology to build entertainment and media of All sorts. I've worked on movies and game cinematics and the like. But it wasn't until I was on a motion capture stage that I was putting the facial capture system together and considering a model from a vendor. My exuberance and passion for technology. I was pushing buttons and flipping switches, as it were, and the developer came over and said, slow down. You haven't let the model train. You really need to train the model. These words train the model stuck in me as like a splinter. I didn't understand what he was talking about or what he meant. It was at that moment when I went back to my terminal in the studio and I Googled to train the model, and very quickly stumbled across machine learning. It was at that point, I began going deep down a rabbit hole. I understood at that moment what I am trying to express to you now, which is everything that we have done creatively as human beings up until this point in history is now going to change. We will change. There were days that I couldn't sleep as I lay in bed and my stomach hurt because I realized that at a certain point I wouldn't be animating anymore. Has only been my shock and surprise to realize that I won't be animating or doing many of the activities creatively that I have been doing in entertainment up to that point, was part of my motivation to move into education, where I have now worked very diligently for the last five years as a educational strategist and a leader of a college level computer graphics department. I'm now chair of that department, and a lot of my time is spent thinking, how will the next generation use AI in a way that best benefits them creatively? But also socially, economically, spiritually and everything else. So this is the motivation for writing this book. So let me start by saying why we should do this. Why should we care about AI, what is so important about it? Well, quite frankly, we need to understand this is not going away. And not only is it not going away, it's accelerating rapidly. This is a chart that I'm going to attach that came from the venture capitalist firm Andreessen Horowitz, this is the research component that shows a graph showing the amount of machine learning papers, which is as we'll as we'll learn in the next chapter. A component, a division, if you would, of the field of artificial intelligence, you can see the number of papers that were being published in 2021 and 2022 were exponentially rising at an alarming rate as I write this now, 2024 going into 2025 we are most likely on The near flat plane going upward in an alarmingly fast rate, which means that things that are being developed will come and go within a moment's notice. When we use software, we often have to do updates versions come on a regular basis. So anybody who is a creative who utilizes Photoshop or an engine like the Unreal Engine or unity will have to understand that updates regularly come. You need to stay on track of what is coming from the company or what the developers are offering with artificial intelligence. However, this will accelerate to a near instant update. Our software will migrate into a undulating, moving form of material. We will probably utilize and sculpt software in a way like clay, as opposed to some sort of finalized component that we download and use. There's my argument here that this will require an entirely new form of understanding, an entirely new form of workflow and an entirely new form of mental and emotional fortitude and ethos, if you will. And it is my hope that this book and this network book will be a guide for that. Not only is it happening in an end quantity, this is something that must be embraced and dealt with. I have students who have rejected artificial intelligence claiming that they want to continue doing handcrafted approaches, making things look beautiful or whatever. And I agree that human creativity is something that is magical and should never be forgotten. However. We live in a capitalist society where money is the bottom line, and the acceleration of this is leading to economic advantages that are not able to be denied by what businesses are I have been validated from my position as an academic leader, but also as a specialist in the field that these kinds of movements in the space are happening so rapidly. It's not that industry is replacing humans with AI. It's that they cannot afford not to use AI in order to accelerate at the pace that it's moving at, without having a proper understanding of AI. Is very likely that companies will replace workers directly, one to one with artificial intelligence as a replacement. But this isn't simply, I'm going to use AI because it's cheaper. This is an acceleration of an ongoing trend, globalization and digitization is already allowed for companies to instead of hiring a single artist or an illustrator or an animator or a filmmaker, they can use libraries stock, libraries of assets. They can outsource to places like India or Eastern Europe who have lower costs per living and can charge less and also, quite frankly, they are finding more systematized ways using User Experience science to understand how databases could match components together, Instead of sending laborious emails trying to solve someone's problems. There are databases and all kinds of informational components that accelerate the processes already. We watch Netflix that are on recommendation engines, and our Amazon cart is guided by AI. And the predictive world for the last 10 years has been massive, but generative AI with the likes that comes from large language models or the components that we'll see like Claude, and then the image based models and the video based models, like runway, or any of These things that very quickly could be out of date, even as I press publish on this are coming. The generative world will radically shape and change things that are happening.

And then very soon we will see the rise of AI agents. These are full autonomous entities that will do the jobs. We will create agent agentic workflows and agentic networks that, like a company, works together with different jobs. We will componentize components of architecture, animation, film, game development, art of all kinds, and create automated processes that will vastly, vastly accelerate not just the production, but the marketing, sales, distribution and everything else that is related to the labor of creative work. This is not something that we can sit idly by. So it's my understanding and my hope to create a place where we can raise awareness for one, that everyone is aware that this is happening. Two, a guide, a way that they can be guided to understand some of these core components. Most up to this point, artificial intelligence has been something that PhDs and machine learning, people have learned this is an opportunity for us to simplify what it means to use AI so creatives can wrap their brain around it in an accessible way for them to use it too. And finally, my concerns are about safety. I really believe creatives should be interested inserting themselves into this conversation on a day to day basis. For it is data, and creative data, specifically, which is at risk here if we centralize our artificial intelligent networks without giving dupe credit to the creatives and the artists that are part of it, it is possible that we will destroy massive amounts of the creative things that make us human itself. This book is divided currently into seven sections, but instead of I'll stop here to tell a story about me trying to publish this book after I spoke to a couple of publishers, they pushed back and said that I could not use any generative imaging. Already, the intellectual property issues have arisen, and they've also said that there would be a six month lag to anything that I published if I publish a book and put it on a shelf, and if I'm correct, which I believe that I am, that AI will accelerate at the pace that it is going, it is almost irrelevant to write a book and have a hard copy, as opposed to creating something that is live And updatable using the software obsidian, and integrating with the large language Claude, I believe that I am able to create content on a much more rapid rate and push updates that will be able to meet the demands and the evolutions of the industry. Of course, time is always an issue when it is my hope that I will be utilizing the automated systems that I write about itself in the creation of this content, this knowledge base, could be a source, or at least a start. That is my hope. I have no idea where this will go, but I have no longer have run out of time. Now I've run out of time, which means that I must begin recording and creating this content as quickly as possible for the sake

of people who need to know about this

transformative work.

The way this book is structured is a

knowledge base, and using obsidian, I have tried to use hyperlinks to be able to link the sections together in a way that will allow you to chase rabbit holes. I tried to create a sort of linear approach so you could read it section by section as a book, but I hope that it will become a guide, an accessible guidebook that you will allow, allow you to go to different pages and see different explanations and then link directly to current businesses or models or open source libraries that are accessible and useful to you. This first section is about the introduction, of course, that you're reading right now. But then I will go through a series of sort of large categorical sections, essentially places that I believe that will grow at least in the near term that will allow me to deposit information into sections. We'll start very simply by talking in depth about neural networks. Neural networks, I believe, are a strong starting point for us to understand the basis of generative technology. And the simplicity of it is actually quite staggering the fact that this works and is essentially a computing phenomenon based on the relationship between components, is something that must be understood and integrated into your mindset as a creative going deeper into neural networks, we'll discuss more philosophical concepts like latent space, but also Understand the utilization of neural networks in things like prediction or vision or how they will they're being used in a generative capacity. We'll then move into llms, which, probably because of chatgpt, has sort of taken the world by storm. So in section two, we will go into large language models and talk about how large language models are used in various capacities. Again, we will describe what they are, their history, how they came about, and how they are used. Then using llms, we'll go into some creative workflows. I'll outline some of my processes for writing and how llms could be utilized in what I'm doing currently, but also ways that llms could be utilized in not just writing, but in the creative process in general, it's also staggering to think that our programming will evolve from knowing something like Python or C Plus Plus to, quite frankly speaking, in English or whatever comfortable language you have, or, quite frankly, any sort of communicative way that you have To be able to declare your intent to AI. So llms will be a focal point and an important point for us to start and master as you work with AI.

In section three, we'll

start off talking about generative models, specifically images to start image making you might be familiar with midjourney or dolly or a number of other image making models, it's important for us to understand how these were created, and particularly about data sets. We will again revisit latent space as it relates to that for I believe that this is core to the understanding of developing workflows in generative technologies for artists, once we have covered images, we will lightly touch on other generative capacities like Video or Audio, and give reference to a number of places that generative model, generative models and the things that they can create will go. In section four, we talk about emergent trends, right? This is where we will dive into the ideas of agentic workflows and how we might be able to utilize AI in ways to create simulations and simulated systems that collections of work, workers, generative, artificial Workers, will move and interact in ways and how these systems will be put together, potentially through concepts of gamification and how real time engines will continue to evolve rapidly, not just to create the visualizations that we have, but also to create the information and the data and the the iterations of the components that we need. So that's section four, is sort of the emergent phenomenon of agentic workflows and how things work together. In Section five, we'll start moving into more philosophical concepts about ethics and concerns, right? We'll start with data and data sets and why it's important to understand how data is utilized, and we'll discuss concepts like interoperability and why. Why data will be used as it is, and how we can consider things like intellectual property and protection of rights and protection of our personalized data, which increasingly is at risk. And Section six will be references ways that I've learned, and others have learned, to start to understand these very complex ideas and terms, this will be sort of a resource of just various leads and places to go for you to continue their learning and be able to force feed yourself some of these concepts so you get up to speed as quickly as possible. I think I missed a couple of sections, but I can update this when I have more information later on.

## Rate transcript quality

00:0021:15

Ask AI questions or

chat with your teammates